Before react.
One popular technique for managing state changes in an app over time,
was to use data bindings,
so that when data changes in one place,
that changes automatically reflected in other places in the app.
Any part of the app that had that data could also change it.
But, as the app grows this technique makes it difficult to determine how a change in
one place automatically and implicitly affects the rest of the app.
React uses an explicit method for passing data between
components that makes it a lot easier to track changes to the state,
and how they affect other places of the app.
This is called unidirectional data flow because
the data flows one way from parent elements down to children.